docs/getting-started/editing.md, before:

# Editing
Glyphr Studio uses a common editing experience for Glyphs, Components, and Ligatures, 
because these types of objects are all a collection of paths that form a visual 
representation of a glyph.

Editor pages are split into three main areas.  From left to right, the first area is 
the Panels area. There is a thin area in the middle to select Tools. And finally 
a large area on the right to display the edit canvas.

![Editor page](../img/page_characters.png)

## Panels area
Project data is displayed two ways: the edit canvas displays a visual representation 
of the data.  The Panels area displays data in various lists or inputs. The Attributes 
Panel, for example, displays a series of Cards that has detailed information about 
whatever is currently selected. These cards have properties that you can edit, and 
those changes will update on the Edit Canvas (and vise-versa, changes on the Edit Canvas
will update the detail cards). Cards also display various actions you can take on that 
selected item.

### Detail cards
The main detail cards are:
 - **Glyph** - if nothing is selected, the Glyph card is the only one displayed.
 - **Path** - shows information about the currently selected Path.
 - **Path Point** - shows information about the currently selected point on the path.


## Tools
The Edit Tools are:
 - **New Rectangle** - draws a new rectangle path with four corner points (that don't have handles).
 - **New Oval** - draws a new oval path.
 - **New Path** - draws a new path. Click once to add corner points. Click and drag to add a point with symmetric handles (this can be changed later). Once you're done creating a new path, you can select a different tool, or press the "Done creating path" button.
 - **Path edit** - this is the Pen tool, it allows you to select points, then move that point or move it's handles.
 - **Resize** - this is the Arrow tool, it allows you to select a whole path, then move it or resize it.

For the Path Edit and Resize tools, holding down `Ctrl` will allow you to multi-select 
either Paths or Path Points.

## Edit canvas
The Edit Canvas is the visual representation of project data. Changes here will update 
the Panel area details as well. 

Along the bottom there are canvas view controls, from left to right they are:

 - **Pan** - move the view left / right / up / down. You can also toggle Pan by holding down `Space bar` or `Middle mouse wheel`.
 - **Zoom** - there are Zoom Out `-`, Zoom readout %, and Zoom In `+` controls grouped together. The `-` and `+` buttons adjust the zoom %.
 - **Zoom 1:1** - the Zoom 1:1 button sets the zoom level such that 1 pixel on your screen is equal to 1 Em unit from your project.
 - **Zoom to fit** - this will auto-fit the current glyph to however big your window is currently.

Commit message:

Content update for final Beta release :page_with_curl:

docs/getting-started/editing.md, after:

# Editing
Glyphr Studio uses a common editing experience for Glyphs, Components, and Ligatures, 
because these types of objects are all a collection of paths that form a visual 
representation of a glyph.

Editor pages are split into three main areas.  From left to right, the first area is 
the Panels area. There is a thin area in the middle to select Tools. And finally 
a large area on the right to display the edit canvas.

![Editor page](../img/page_characters.png)

## Panels area
Project data is displayed two ways: the edit canvas displays a visual representation 
of the data.  The Panels area displays data in various lists or inputs. The Attributes 
Panel, for example, displays a series of Cards that has detailed information about 
whatever is currently selected. These cards have properties that you can edit, and 
those changes will update on the Edit Canvas (and vise-versa, changes on the Edit Canvas
will update the detail cards). Cards also display various actions you can take on that 
selected item.

### Detail cards
The main detail cards are:
 - **Glyph** - if nothing is selected, the Glyph card is the only one displayed.
 - **Path** - shows information about the currently selected Path.
 - **Path Point** - shows information about the currently selected point on the path.


## Tools
| Edit&nbsp;Tool | Icon | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| New&nbsp;Rectangle | ![Icon Tool - New Rectangle](../img/icon-tool_new_rectangle.png) | Draws a new rectangle path with four corner points (that don't have handles). |
| New&nbsp;Oval | ![Icon Tool - New Oval](../img/icon-tool_new_oval.png) | Draws a new oval path. |
| New&nbsp;Path | ![Icon Tool - New Path](../img/icon-tool_new_path.png) | Draws a new path. Click once to add corner points. Click and drag to add a point with symmetric handles (this can be changed later). Once you're done creating a new path, you can select a different tool, or press the "Done creating path" button. |
| Add&nbsp;Path&nbsp;Point | ![Icon Tool - Add Path Point](../img/icon-tool_add_path_point.png) | Adds a path point to a path that already exists. |
| Path&nbsp;edit | ![Icon Tool - Path edit](../img/icon-tool_path_edit.png) | This is the Pen tool, it allows you to select points, then move that point or move it's handles. |
| Resize | ![Icon Tool - Resize](../img/icon-tool_resize.png) | This is the Arrow tool, it allows you to select a whole path, then move it or resize it. |
| Kern | ![Icon Tool - Kern](../img/icon-tool_kern.png) | On the Kern page, this is the only tool, which adjusts the kern value. |

For the Path Edit and Resize tools, holding down `Ctrl` will allow you to multi-select 
either Paths or Path Points.

For the Add Path Point tool, holding down `Shift` will round the coordinate values of the new point to whole numbers.

## Edit canvas
The Edit Canvas is the visual representation of project data. Changes here will update 
the Panel area details as well. 

Along the bottom there are canvas view controls, from left to right they are:
| View&nbsp;Tool | Icon | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pan | ![Icon Tool - Pan](../img/icon-tool_pan.png) | Move the view left / right / up / down. You can also toggle Pan by holding down `Space bar` or `Middle mouse wheel`. |
| Zoom | ![Icon Tool - Zoom Out](../img/icon-tool_zoom_out.png)![Icon Tool - Zoom In](../img/icon-tool_zoom_in.png) | There are Zoom Out `-`, Zoom readout %, and Zoom In `+` controls grouped together. The `-` and `+` buttons adjust the zoom %. |
| Zoom&nbsp;1:1 | ![Icon Tool - Zoom 1:1](../img/icon-tool_zoom_1_1.png) | The Zoom 1:1 button sets the zoom level such that 1 pixel on your screen is equal to 1 Em unit from your project. |
| Zoom&nbsp;to&nbsp;fit | ![Icon Tool - Zoom to fit](../img/icon-tool_zoom_fit.png) | This will auto-fit the current glyph to however big your window is currently. |
| Live&nbsp;Preview | ![Icon Tool - Live Preview](../img/icon-tool_pop_out.png) | Pop out a second screen for a live preview of your font. |
