docs/getting-started/keyboard-shortcuts.md, before:

# Keyboard shortcuts

Most of the Keyboard Shortcuts in Glyphr Studio are focused on pages where you edit glyphs - namely Characters, Ligatures, and Components.

### Project actions

| Key combination | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `S`      | Save a Glyphr Studio Project File (.gs2) |
| `Ctrl` `E`      | Export an OTF Font (.otf)                |
| `Ctrl` `G`      | Export an SVG Font (.svg)                |
| `Ctrl` `O`      | Open a project in a new tab              |

### Selecting and navigating

| Key combination               | Description                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `.`                    | Navigate to the next Item (Character, Ligature, Component, or Kern Group)                                                                      |
| `Ctrl` `,`                    | Navigate to the previous Item (Character, Ligature, Component, or Kern Group)                                                                  |
| `Ctrl` `A`                    | Resize (Arrow) tool: Select all shapes                                                                                                         |
| `Ctrl` `A`                    | Path Edit (Pen) tool: Select all path points                                                                                                   |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `A`            | Clear all shape and path point selections                                                                                                      |
| `]`                           | Select next shape                                                                                                                              |
| `Shift` `]`                   | Add the next shape to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                             |
| `[`                           | Select previous shape                                                                                                                          |
| `Shift` `[`                   | Add the previous shape to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                         |
| `Ctrl` _`Click a shape`_      | [Resize (Arrow) Tool - hovering over a shape] Toggle selection for that shape (multi-select)<br>Either on the edit canvas, or the layers panel |
| `Ctrl` `➝`                    | Select the next Path Point                                                                                                                     |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `➝`            | Add the next Path Point to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                        |
| `Ctrl` `⭠`                    | Select the previous Path Point                                                                                                                 |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `⭠`            | Add the previous Path Point to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                    |
| `Ctrl` _`Click a path point`_ | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a path point] Toggle selection for that path point (multi-select)                                        |
| `Esc`                         | Close all dialogs                                                                                                                              |

### View

| Key combination                 | Description                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `Space` or `Scroll wheel click` | Toggle the pan tool                  |
| `Ctrl` `Scroll wheel`           | Zoom in and out                      |
| `Ctrl` `+`                      | Zoom in                              |
| `Ctrl` `-`                      | Zoom out                             |
| `Ctrl` `0`                      | Auto-fit glyph on the screen         |
| `Ctrl` `Space`                  | Toggle distraction free preview mode |

### Editing

| Key combination                   | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `C`                        | Copy the selected shapes                                                                                                                     |
| `Ctrl` `V`                        | Paste the selected shapes (Glyphr Studio Clipboard)<br>Paste to import copied SVG Code (Operating System Clipboard)                          |
| `Ctrl` `]`                        | Move shape up                                                                                                                                |
| `Ctrl` `[`                        | Move shape down                                                                                                                              |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `]`                | Move shape to the top                                                                                                                        |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `[`                | Move shape to the bottom                                                                                                                     |
| `Delete` or `Backspace`           | Delete the selected shapes or path points                                                                                                    |
| `⭠` `⭡` `➝` `⭣`                   | Nudge the selected shape or path point <span class="number">1em</span><br>Press <code>Shift</code> to nudge <span class="number">10em</span> |
| `Shift` _`Resize shape`_          | [Resize (Arrow) Tool] Maintain aspect ratio                                                                                                  |
| `Shift` _`Drag shape`_            | [Resize (Arrow) Tool - hovering over a shape] Snap shape movement to horizontal or vertical                                                  |
| `Shift` _`Drag path point`_       | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a path point] Snap point movement to horizontal or vertical                                            |
| `Shift` _`Drag handle`_           | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a handle] Maintain original handle angle                                                               |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` _`Drag handle`_    | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a handle] Snap handle movement to horizontal or vertical                                               |
| `Shift` _`Shape Rotation handle`_ | [Shape Rotate Handle] Snap rotation degrees to whole numbers                                                                                 |
| `Ctrl` `R`                        | Round values for the current selection<br>(Whole Shapes for the Resize tool, Path Points + Handles for the Path Edit tool)                   |
| `Shift` _`Click`_                 | [New Path Tool] Snap the new point's coordinates to whole numbers                                                                            |
| `Shift` _`Click`_                 | [Path Add Point Tool] Snap the new point's coordinates to whole numbers                                                                      |
| `Ctrl` _`Click`_                  | [Path Add Point Tool] Add the new point as a corner point with hidden handles                                                                |

### Tools

| Key combination | Description                     |
| --------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `B` or `P`      | Select the Path Edit (Pen) tool |
| `V` or `A`      | Select the Resize (Arrow) tool  |
| `M` or `R`      | Select the New Rectangle tool   |
| `O` or `Q`      | Select the New Oval tool        |
| `H` or `W`      | Select the New Path tool        |
| `U` or `E`      | Select the Path Add Point tool  |

Commit message:

Add Undo to the keyboard shortcut list

docs/getting-started/keyboard-shortcuts.md, after:

# Keyboard shortcuts

Most of the Keyboard Shortcuts in Glyphr Studio are focused on pages where you edit glyphs - namely Characters, Ligatures, and Components.

### Project actions

| Key combination | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `S`      | Save a Glyphr Studio Project File (.gs2) |
| `Ctrl` `E`      | Export an OTF Font (.otf)                |
| `Ctrl` `G`      | Export an SVG Font (.svg)                |
| `Ctrl` `O`      | Open a project in a new tab              |

### Selecting and navigating

| Key combination               | Description                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `.`                    | Navigate to the next Item (Character, Ligature, Component, or Kern Group)                                                                      |
| `Ctrl` `,`                    | Navigate to the previous Item (Character, Ligature, Component, or Kern Group)                                                                  |
| `Ctrl` `A`                    | Resize (Arrow) tool: Select all shapes                                                                                                         |
| `Ctrl` `A`                    | Path Edit (Pen) tool: Select all path points                                                                                                   |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `A`            | Clear all shape and path point selections                                                                                                      |
| `]`                           | Select next shape                                                                                                                              |
| `Shift` `]`                   | Add the next shape to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                             |
| `[`                           | Select previous shape                                                                                                                          |
| `Shift` `[`                   | Add the previous shape to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                         |
| `Ctrl` _`Click a shape`_      | [Resize (Arrow) Tool - hovering over a shape] Toggle selection for that shape (multi-select)<br>Either on the edit canvas, or the layers panel |
| `Ctrl` `➝`                    | Select the next Path Point                                                                                                                     |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `➝`            | Add the next Path Point to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                        |
| `Ctrl` `⭠`                    | Select the previous Path Point                                                                                                                 |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `⭠`            | Add the previous Path Point to the selection (multi-select)                                                                                    |
| `Ctrl` _`Click a path point`_ | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a path point] Toggle selection for that path point (multi-select)                                        |
| `Esc`                         | Close all dialogs                                                                                                                              |

### View

| Key combination                 | Description                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `Space` or `Scroll wheel click` | Toggle the pan tool                  |
| `Ctrl` `Scroll wheel`           | Zoom in and out                      |
| `Ctrl` `+`                      | Zoom in                              |
| `Ctrl` `-`                      | Zoom out                             |
| `Ctrl` `0`                      | Auto-fit glyph on the screen         |
| `Ctrl` `Space`                  | Toggle distraction free preview mode |

### Editing

| Key combination                   | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Ctrl` `C`                        | Copy the selected shapes                                                                                                                        |
| `Ctrl` `V`                        | Paste the selected shapes (Glyphr Studio Clipboard)<br>Paste to import copied SVG Code (Operating System Clipboard)                             |
| `Ctrl` `Z`                        | Undo the last action. If the previous action was on a different item, undo navigates to the previously changed item without undoing the change. |
| `Ctrl` `]`                        | Move shape up                                                                                                                                   |
| `Ctrl` `[`                        | Move shape down                                                                                                                                 |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `]`                | Move shape to the top                                                                                                                           |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` `[`                | Move shape to the bottom                                                                                                                        |
| `Delete` or `Backspace`           | Delete the selected shapes or path points                                                                                                       |
| `⭠` `⭡` `➝` `⭣`                   | Nudge the selected shape or path point <span class="number">1em</span><br>Press <code>Shift</code> to nudge <span class="number">10em</span>    |
| `Shift` _`Resize shape`_          | [Resize (Arrow) Tool] Maintain aspect ratio                                                                                                     |
| `Shift` _`Drag shape`_            | [Resize (Arrow) Tool - hovering over a shape] Snap shape movement to horizontal or vertical                                                     |
| `Shift` _`Drag path point`_       | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a path point] Snap point movement to horizontal or vertical                                               |
| `Shift` _`Drag handle`_           | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a handle] Maintain original handle angle                                                                  |
| `Ctrl` `Shift` _`Drag handle`_    | [Path Edit (Pen) Tool - hovering over a handle] Snap handle movement to horizontal or vertical                                                  |
| `Shift` _`Shape Rotation handle`_ | [Shape Rotate Handle] Snap rotation degrees to whole numbers                                                                                    |
| `Ctrl` `R`                        | Round values for the current selection<br>(Whole Shapes for the Resize tool, Path Points + Handles for the Path Edit tool)                      |
| `Shift` _`Click`_                 | [New Path Tool] Snap the new point's coordinates to whole numbers                                                                               |
| `Shift` _`Click`_                 | [Path Add Point Tool] Snap the new point's coordinates to whole numbers                                                                         |
| `Ctrl` _`Click`_                  | [Path Add Point Tool] Add the new point as a corner point with hidden handles                                                                   |

### Tools

| Key combination | Description                     |
| --------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `B` or `P`      | Select the Path Edit (Pen) tool |
| `V` or `A`      | Select the Resize (Arrow) tool  |
| `M` or `R`      | Select the New Rectangle tool   |
| `O` or `Q`      | Select the New Oval tool        |
| `H` or `W`      | Select the New Path tool        |
| `U` or `E`      | Select the Path Add Point tool  |
